If you suffered from racial inequality, if you suffered from gender inequality, you would be completely ju stified in the fact that you are not achieving the things that other people who didn't have those disadvan tages have achieved. And I say this as a white guy who was born in America to a doctor father, but at the same degree, you have the opportunity that Chris Nor I have, which is that you can be an inspiration to p eople who went through the same thing. Because I can promise that there is somebody who has had it worse and has done it better. Alex, hello, Muzzy. Welcome to the show. Thank you for having me. My pl easure, man. One of my favorite things to do is to scrape through people's twitters that are aphorists an d come up with little pithy statements and then break them down. So I want to go through some of the t hings that I've learned from you over the last year or so. Go into those. And then there's some talking po ints that I don't think I've heard you speak about before as well. I want to get onto. Beautiful. So the first one is so many lives would transform overnight if they realized my life sucks. I have nothing going for me really means I have nothing to lose. And that makes you a very dangerous person. So in any kind of gam e position, so like in business, right? Every position has advantages and disadvantages. And a lot of peopl e look at the really big guys and they're like, man, they like they're like, they're looking at me like, must b e easy for Alex. Right. And I remember when we had Jim launch and we had a very big company, I would tell the guys who are coming up, it was like, if you're trying to compete against me, I was like, you have a dvantages. I was like, if you're on a sales call, you're like, listen, you're just a number to Alex. You're nev er going to talk to Alex, right? Here with me, you're going to get my attention. I'm the one, right? I was li ke, that's how you're going to throw stones at me. I was like, but on the flip side, if it's me marketing to t he masses, I'm going to be like, this kid's in his mom's basement. He has no idea what he's doing. He's be en in business for 12 months. And of course he has no idea. Like wouldn't you want somebody who has t housands of success stories behind it? Because we've made a system like both sides have advantages. A nd so what happens is people are in this small position where they're more nimble. They can give more personalized attention to people, et cetera. And they see it as a pure disadvantage. And so you can flip t he fact that you have nothing going for you with, you have nothing to lose. And that means that you can take lots of risks very quickly and end up in the exact same position you are, which is nothing. And so if y ou eliminate downside, it should decrease your action threshold, meaning you should be able to do mor e things faster rather than do fewer things because you don't have a great life or things going for you. A nd so I think if people flip that, a lot more people would take action because they actually realize the adv antage of their position. John Greenewald Jack Butch just says you get rich by taking lots of risk with sma ll amounts of money and you stay rich by taking small amounts of risk with lots of money. Yes. I wholehe artedly agree. I didn't know that was his quote. John Greenewald He may have repurposed it. There's so mething called Chuchellian Drift. Do you know what that is? No. John Greenewald So it's a phenomenon. John Greenewald Everything's Churchill at the core. John Greenewald The opposite. It's that quotes that weren't said by Churchill often get like erroneously attributed to him. It's like all quotes lead back to Chu rchill, even though they didn't. John Greenewald And Socrates. John Greenewald Yeah. It's like, it's just o ne of those things. It's like, I think the Churchill once said, you get rich by making large amounts. It's like, no, he fucking, but there's another one as well that a good friend, James Smith talked about, which is if y ou're succeeding at a job that you hate, imagine how good you'd be at a job that you loved. And that's ki nd of the same. This person is starting from essentially zero. How much fucking worse can it get? John G reenewald Right. It's the downside. If you can eliminate someone's downside for action, it's like then the bias, it should bias you towards taking action. John Greenewald Why is it that people in that case, if they do have nothing to lose, still feel like they have lots to lose? John Greenewald Because I think most of th e times, so I think this is really important is that they have nothing objectively to lose. And so everything that they feel like they have to lose is purely made up in their mind. It's stories that tell themselves abou t what other people are going to think about them when those people aren't even thinking about them t o begin with. But that's where they live all of their lives or live out all of the potential downside is in the mere reflection of what other people will think about them in the future should they fail. And I think tha t is the, if we were trying to get real and I'm talking to somebody like, well, I mean, because I know that i f I actually had somebody in front of me, they'd start squirming, right? If I said the first thing, right? Like you have nothing to lose. And then because then they do have something to lose and I just have to nam e it for them and be like, okay, who's the person in your mind? Who's the voice? It's like, blah, blah, blah , six questions deep. It's my uncle. Okay. Why? Like, let me state it this way. Will your belief that you're g oing to be viewed as a failure by your uncle be the sole reason that you live the rest of your life below yo ur potential and regret everything that you don't do because of uncle Tom. That's the wrong one. Uncle Harry. When you say it like that, all of a sudden they're like, I don't want to let uncle Harry have that kin d of power. And then all of a sudden it breaks and then they like get free of it. And so I think it's getting r eally specific and really narrow on the, because people say it's society, it's other people. It's like, it's usua lly one or two voices. And if you can get really specific on whose voice it is, then you can name it. And th en like, I think I'm a big believer in like shame only exists in the shadows, which is like, once you put it in the light, you look at it and you're like, my mom, that was really it. Like when I really think about it, it's b ecause it's not even just my mom. It's my mom in this circumstance. When I come back home for Thanks giving, I just am so afraid of the comment that she's going to make. It's like, well, what if we confront tha t? Okay. Your mom, you sit down at Thanksgiving dinner and you haven't made money yet and you quit your job. Now what? Is that better than you spending the next 60 years hating her or resenting her for t he fact that she held you back. And then it's like, when you give the real scenario, they're like, well, shit. And then like this weight comes off and they're like, fuck, I guess I should do this. And you're like, yeah. S hame only exists in the shadows is nice. I like that. And it definitely is cleansing to just be like, look, here it is out in front of you. And you realize just how irrational it is. Because we don't want to look at it beca use it's in the shadow and we put it in the shadows because of how it makes us feel about ourselves in my opinion. And so it's so scary. We avoid it. We avoid it. We avoid avoid it, but it's like, I think the faster you can kind of build that muscle of like, I've got this hesitation. What is the real reason? Because like lo gically I can do that whole thing. Cool. You have nothing to lose. You're poor. Great. Zero. Right. Okay. B ut then what is it that I'm, that I do have something to lose. It's relational capital. It's status within my tin y micro community. That doesn't matter. But like my perceived status. Okay. Name the names and, but, but by pulling it out from the shadows, it'll be like that confrontation from here to here is I think where a ll the fear is because it's embarrassing to be like, it's my mom. The other perfect thing or great realizatio n, I think for anybody that's starting out and is feeling self-conscious about what other people are going to think is when you're starting out by design, there are so few people looking at you that even if you do fail, no one fucking sees. Right? So this is something we realized when we were running nightclubs that we would try and launch a new event around fresh as we can September. And we would, we would have this great idea and it would be, everything would be about flamingos or everything would be, it would b e a smart night on a Tuesday. So people could go out after they've been to sports club or whatever it wa s, and then it would flop. Right. And we do 150 people and all of the guys that work for us would be stoo d outside looking destitute and upset and they go, so embarrassing. There. So it looks like there's more r oom. Oh dude, we had so many tricks. We'd pump the pump the room full of smoke. We would pad the back off so that everyone had to go to the front. We get the DJ to play music, all sorts of shit. But all of t he boys would be like, fuck, this makes us look so bad. Everyone's going to think that we're shit. I was lik e, no, no, no, no, no, 150 people are going to think that we're shit. Like the advantage of running a shit b usiness that doesn't reach many people is that not many people saw your shit business. And that's when you starting out people that are concerned about becoming a content creator. I I'm worried about starti ng a podcast. Cause what if everyone sees how shit my podcast is? It's like, dude, no one's going to see y our podcast. It took me three, three and a half years to get even an appreciable amount of people listeni ng to this show. And it was effort three times a week. No one cares when you start. So you can be liberat ed from that as well. And it's just objection handling, objection, handling, objection, handling all the way down. I think a lot of, I think a couple of frames that are just different frames are on content making sinc e we're on the topic. That helped me was one is seeing it as practice rather than the game. So like when we're doing a podcast, if you start, it's like, Hey, we're, I'm going to do a podcast. I'm going to post it's pr actice for me getting better for future may rather than like, I am like, this is the main game. It's like, no, t he game is the whole thing. And this is just like, we're still in preseason. Like these, these, these scores, t hese touchdowns don't even matter yet. Right now you can say yet, even though like I can still feel like I' m a preseason, but I think from a mental framework, it actually decreases the stakes associated with doi ng it. And I think that's been helpful for me, especially it was in the earlier days. The other one was kind of the equal opposite of this problem, which is not wanting to start because no one's watching because i t feels like you're doing all this work. What's the point? And so I actually, the little mental trick that I had was, um, when I track lots of stuff and the more ways you track, the more ways you can win. And so that 's a little thing that I found out. So like, if you track a hundred sets and the only need one of them to go up, so you feel like you made some progress. So that's like an easy one. And the second thing around the tracking is that I would look at like the biggest possible number. So a lot of times you can see like the im pressions of, you know, a post that you make, even if you only got like 16 likes, I got like a hundred impr essions. And I thought to myself, I was like, well, if there was a room of a hundred people, I'd be stoked. Like that would be awesome. Especially in the early days. I was like, that would be, I would totally feel lik e that was worthwhile. And so taking those little impression numbers and pretending that they were like micro events that I was making the work or the content for all of a sudden made it feel worth it for me. And so the combination of I can have a small room and I'm really impacting, like when I got a view that h as like 13 views on it, you know, for like a video in the early days, I'd be like, well, shoot, I made this vide o and 13 people saw it was like a small room. Like that works. But looking at both absolute growth and r elative growth. So it's like, okay, well, I went from 10 followers this month to 15 followers this month. It' s like, well, you can say that you only gained five followers. I was like, or you can say that you gained by, you went up by 50%. And that was exciting. And so then I, cause I'm a Excel projection guy, I'll like, okay, well, if I do this every month and the team knows this, because I project everything out, I'm like, if we do this, because I I'll predict where we're going to be in like 12 months and I usually hit it very, very, very, b ut how do you account for the unforeseen 5 million play video that comes in? Well, that's my padding. R ight. So we'll like, I'll project out with no white swan events. You know, where something good happens. But just if we keep doing what we're currently doing at this trajectory, we compound at 13% a month. T hat's what it is right now. So 13% monthly. And that's just on one of the platforms we're on. And so I can just see what we're going to be at six months. And that's exciting. So James Smith gamifies it in the same way. Yeah, absolutely. Exactly the same way. And he always says that it's just like playing levels on a com puter game. And this month, wow, like I got another XP point or whatever. And I think that's very import ant because social media and the fact that it is associated with status, even though everybody says, Oh, you know, it doesn't really matter and blah, blah, it does. Like it's very hard for us to remove the human hierarchy from what is evidently just quantified fucking status, right? On a screen. And what he did was he removed himself a lot existentially from that by saying it's not coming on my worth as a person. It's n ot a comment on whether I'm, you know, going to be loved or accepted by the world. It's me putting so me stuff out and wow, we won this month. Yeah. And this month, maybe we didn't win. Why didn't we win? Well, I go back the same way as if someone beats you at FIFA, unless you're like a pro FIFA player o r whatever. But again, with that, what's the difference between the amateur FIFA player and the pro FIF A player? The pro has put his existential connection to his content and the success of it. There's so many little things on this that I want to go into. One of them is that so Dr. Cash, he's my closest friend. He's lik e a behavioral, whatever loves studying why humans do things. And so people who are most successful a lot of times with their, it's not that they necessarily have more willpower. They find ways to, they find other ways to reward themselves. And so he's like, the more skills you have, the more ways you have to reward yourself. And so somebody who, somebody can extend how long their time horizon is because t hey do gamify it. So people who don't have the skills of figuring out ways to reward themselves in the m eantime, can't make it the whole way. But that's like when you're doing cardio and you're like, okay, it's five, you know, it's five times five to get out of here, right? You create micro games within the longer ga me to keep yourself going. And the thing is I've seen that across verticals. So like, if you look at a, so Trav is Mash is a Olympic lifter, Olympic lifting coach out of North Carolina, and he has this really cool way of getting lifters to PR every workout. So I have a personal record every workout. And what he does is he h ave them map every single set and rep range for every single lift at every weight. And so what happens i s all you have to do is go through your book of 200 lifts and every single weight, and you can always find one that you did a year ago. And you're like, Oh my God, this is my eight rep max PB on good mornings. Yes. And you're like, well, I can hit nine on this or I can add five pounds to it. And so every workout they win. And so they get excited because they get rewarded every workout. And so that's why it's like the m ore ways you track, the more ways you can win. And then I think that that's those little micro wins can k eep you going over the long game that you have to just keep playing. One of the other associated tweets that you did was if your life sucks, the easiest things to change your environment. This is something that I saw moving from a very good life in the UK to now as excellent of a life as I can imagine in Austin. And I met about a million people throughout my time as a club promoter and had a handful of friends. I was li ke, fuck, like I feel like my people met to friend conversion should be higher than this. I feel like I'm the f unnel is very wide and like the conversions are very low to use your terminology. And then moved out to Austin and it's like I have more friends than people I've met, which is just fucking insane. So definitely ch anging your environment. What other ways given that not everybody could move to Austin, what other ways would you say if your life sucks, the easiest thing is to change your environment? What other ways could someone do that? I mean, the environment is, I mean, like, you know, this is a, I'm going to tangen t and I'm going to come back. So if you've ever heard somebody say like, man, I hate Cincinnati, Cincinna ti sucks, right? Or they go some city and like they go there for two days and they make a judgment acros s the entire city, right? But it's like, okay, let's go really deep. You ate at three restaurants and you saw s even total people in Cincinnati. Does Cincinnati suck or do the two restaurants that you went to or the s even people that you were with not, are they not that cool? Well, it's so easy to just move like two miles down the street. It's the same reason people do staycations. It's like you don't even need to change citie s. You can be in the same city and still change the environment. Like just moving out of your mom's base ment, you know what I mean? And just going into another place with four guys can change the environ ment. And so like, that's the thing that to me was so telling on this was so heroin addiction, super addicti ng, over that way. And when a bunch of soldiers came back from Vietnam, they had been addicted. I do n't know if you've heard of this, right? 25% of soldiers who went to Vietnam tried heroin. It was like an i nsane statistic. And in the US, 90% of heroin addicts who go to clinics relapse. So they have a 10% long-t erm success rate, tough. The stats are completely reversed from people who got addicted or did heroin i n Vietnam and then came back to the US, which then you could make the, you could draw the line, whic h is it's better to change your environment than to even do anything else. Because what happens is you eliminate all the triggers and cues that are associated with the habit that you're trying to destroy. Do yo u see that the American government was absolutely concerned that there was going to be an epidemic? Yeah. They were adamant that all of these soldiers were going to come home and it were going to be th ese veterans that were all addicted to heroin. Yeah. Wild. And there are for sure, but proportion, so muc h proportionless than their quote should be because the problem with the current system of, and like fo r anyone who's listening, you can still extrapolate the principle or the concept. People are in the environ ment that they are addicted. They change environments and they go to a clinic. They change the environ ment. They change their behavior and then they go back to the same environment and their behavior ch anges yet again to match the environment. And so it's like, if you want to change your actions, the easies t thing you can do is just change the environment. Because if you can do that, a lot of times, a lot of the negative things you have, you just don't get triggered. You don't get the cue for the behavior. It just gets extinguished. So the way that I've worked this into my home working setup is I think I have six or seven different places that I can work at. I do different tasks at each one of them. So I've got a place, I'm writin g a book. I've got a place that I write my book. That's first thing in the morning. I've got a place that I do my emails at. That's a recumbent desk bike, which is fucking unbelievable, dude. A hundred and 80 minu tes a week of zone two cardio, 180 minutes a week of emails with zone two cardio. A place outside. I've got my studio record inside. We've got two living rooms at different houses that I can go into. And I'm lik e different spots for each one. And if I'm in this vibe, I'm over here and it's everything's a bit, go for a wal k, come back, move somewhere else. Now I'm in a different mode. Totally. And I'm actually, so it works i n the equal opposite too. If you want to start something, right? So like what we were talking about was extinguishing bad habits by changing the environment by eliminating the cue. But on the flip side, if you want to start a habit, like for me, one of my quote famous ones is like, I want to put sunscreen on. It's lik e this time. It's like one habit. That's like 80 20. Why do you need to put sunscreen on so much? Because not so much. If I could just, if you do like, it's like kind of like walking. Like if you just walk once a day and if like, if everyone just did that, like you add 10 years to everyone's life, it's like, what are the few things i t's like baby aspirin walk. Like if you do that crushing it, uh, from a like, uh, skin cancer prevention, a, an d then be just like less wrinkled Alex future. Um, sun tan lotion or SPF stuff, uh, is like the 80 20 of that, r ight? Instead of having a zillion other things. So it's like, okay, I don't like it. I realized the reason I don't li ke it is I don't like oil on my hands. Sounds so stupid, but like that's enough punishment for me doing it t hat I stopped doing it. And so I had to overcome two things. One was that I hate the oil on my hands and the second is that I don't remember. So I put one thing of sunscreen at each of my watering holes. So I g et queued because I see it as soon as I sit down. So I eat lunch at the same table, I work at the same tabl e and I'm on my nightstand. There's a three places that I spend my time. And so I have one in each of the three places. And then the type of sunscreen I have is that I have one that's dispensed through a thing. S o I don't actually have to touch it. So it's like, do I know why it's like, if you can identify why you don't lik e doing something, then you can isolate why am I being punished for this behavior and think, okay, is th ere a way I can fix it? And the other is how can I cue myself on a more regular basis by changing my envir onment rather than setting an alarm on my phone where if it goes off right now in the middle of podcast s, I'm not going to pull out sun tan lotion, or I'd have to carry everything with me, which I would never d o. Right? That would punish me far more than just not putting it on to begin with. And so just thinking th rough both of those things. Anyways, that has been really helpful for me in starting and queuing myself t o do new behaviors that I want to do. And then also stopping behaviors that I don't want to do. Very nic e. Most distractions come dressed as easy opportunities. This is interesting because as people begin to a ccumulate the success that they say that they want, this becomes an increasingly big problem. Yeah. I thi nk it was Andy Grove who said this, probably Churchill. There we are. Choking another one up for Winst on. It might have been Packard. I think it might actually been Hewlett Packard. It might be one of those g uys. He said that businesses die of indigestion, not starvation. And so they overeat, they're not starving. It's the entrepreneur that, and this is like, you get back to human behavior, which almost all roads lead b ack to it. But the entrepreneurs get reinforced for changing direction because nothing worked, nothing worked, nothing worked. You change that direction, something clicks. And so what happens is you learn a lesson from that. You're like, Oh, so if I change direction, good things happen. But that's not the right l esson, which is one of my favorite things about entrepreneurship is making sure that we learn the right l esson from the instance or the circumstance. It's like, I hired a sales guy. He did a bad job. All sales guys suck. Not the right lesson. But that's actually something that is pervasive in even the internet communit y of lessons that people, they'll tell the story and then they'll say the lesson. But sometimes the lesson, a ll we know is the facts of what happened, not necessarily the thing you took from it. Anyways, I was mak ing a point, Churchill, starvation, easy opportunities. So the higher up in business you get, the more attra ctive the opportunities that you have to learn to say no to. And this has been really hard for me because at every level, I thought, great, I can check the box on distractions. I've learned to say no to $10,000 opp ortunities. But then when you're making $100,000, then you have to be able to say no to $100,000 oppo rtunities. And the thing is, I called the woman in the red dress, but the woman in the red dress, have you heard this little analogy I have? No. Okay. This is one of my favorite analogies. So in The Matrix, Morphe us takes him through a training program to teach him one thing about agents. And so they're walking do wn the street and there's all these people going and he says, were you listening to me or are you looking at the woman in the red dress? And he says, look again, looks back and the woman in the red dress you walk by is an agent putting a gun in his head. And I see distractions the same way, which is that the bett er you become, the more attractive the woman in the red dress is. And so you can say no to a six, but w hat about a seven? About a 12. Exactly. What about a hypothetical thousand? Right? Like that's really w hat it becomes because there is no limit on the upside. And so that's why having like some of the soft stu ff of like, this is the vision, this is what we're trying to do. And there's a hundred other things I could do, but each of the cost of those things is the one thing that matters most. And I think that one of the things that Layla has been so good at helping me with, and I think a lot of my success earlier on was propelled b y the fact that like when I met Layla, I had a chiropractor agency. I had a dental agency. I had five gym lo cations. I had a gym launch business where we did turnarounds. I had all of those things going on and th ere was no CEO besides me. I see all of them cause I didn't understand how this stuff worked. And I also made no actual, I mean, I made money from all of them, but no income. Like everything was just enough to break even. It was nine spinning plates. And it was cause like, I was so opportunistic and it's very class ic new entrepreneur to just say yes to everything. And Warren Buffett said that the difference between r eally successful people and the most successful people, this is me paraphrasing, is that the most successf ul people say no to almost everything. And I've tried to take that because it's so hard. And I think that a l ot of the, you know, it's so simple and so hard, which a lot of success habits are, which is like, if you do t he same thing for a very long period of time, I think this is Neil, shoot Shane. I can't remember the name , but I'll say that. Yeah, it's Churchill again. He said success comes down to doing the obvious thing for an extraordinary period of time without convincing yourself you're smarter than you are. And I just love tha t quote. Why do you not need to convince yourself that you're smarter than you are doing the same thin g? I think it's because you think you can handle both. And so you're like, Oh, I got, Oh, okay. Because if y ou did think that you were smarter than you are, you would then start to take on more stuff. So quote fr om John Maxwell, which I absolutely adore, that says, you cannot overestimate the unimportance of pra ctically everything, which is just fucking perfect. And it's the call. It was Greg McEwen's essentialism is o ne of my top five books of all time. And it's for this precise reason that it's an antidote to the type A fallo ut. Yeah, right. I can do it all. I will do it all. Watch me suffer and bear this burden. And you go like, look, you can do the hard work thing, right? You can, you can do that. But the working hard and being spread thin are two different dynamics. And one of the one of the like, interesting idea I've been playing around with a little bit recently is periodizing work. So in the same way as your weightlifting coach will have the guys doing his sub max for 90 days, he is building up for 90 days. He has comp prep, he has blah, blah, bl ah, blah, blah, whatever it is mobility. That's a much easier way to blend what we're talking about here a s maybe a little bit earlier, I think you need to specialize more as you get bigger and bigger because the d istractions are going to be even greater. Special, how so? So if you are the CEO of your company, and th en someone comes in with you've got so much more downstream from you that if you get distracted, th e repercussions, the ramifications of becoming distracted are magnified even more. What do you think a bout that? Do you agree? I think the specialist piece is the piece that threw me because I always feel like the higher up you go, the more generalist you become. In terms of skill set, but not in terms of projects or in terms of projects. Specialized in projects, general license skills. There we are. Yeah. Yes. I like that. We'll get back to talking to Alex in one second. But first, I need to tell you about HubSpot. 28% of some people's weeks are spent reading, deleting and sorting emails, which means that very much email is not dead. Starting an email newsletter means that you've got direct connection with your audience. It mean s that you actually own your audience. It is the only way that you can own them without going through a third party, like a social media platform. And from HubSpot right now, you can download their free emai l template that will teach you how to make your own newsletter. You can learn how to build an amazing email newsletter from scratch. They will check out a compiled lookbook of awesome examples from real publications. You can learn what it takes to create a successful email newsletter with exceptional design, unique and compelling copy, clickable calls to action, an excellent user experience. And there is a step by step guide about how to get your newsletter launched. So if you've been thinking, I want to start doing a newsletter. This sounds cool. This sounds like a good way for me to start writing, to build an audience th at I can then sell to, or I can then move to other platforms as well. This is a fantastic place to begin. All th at you need to do to download this free guide that will take you from no email newsletter to a fantastica lly designed email newsletter using industry inside information. All that you need to do is head to click h ubspot.com slash modern wisdom. That's click hubspot.com slash modern wisdom to download your fre e email template today. The first step to achieving a massive dream is conquering tiny impulses. I think it 's exactly what we were talking about earlier. It's like, if you like, I got a, there's a tweet that I made. Act ually you, you were the one who made it go viral, which was when you quoted me quoting you David Go ggins, just this endless human centipede of fucking homosy quotes. But it was like, you don't, you don't, you don't build confidence by shouting affirmations in the mirror, but by stacking, by having an undenia ble stack of proof that you are who you say you are. Work yourself down. Thank you. I'll quote you to yo u, which is a new, a new low. So that right. Yeah. A lot of people were like, no, but what if you don't hav e any successes? Like, how do you get started? And I still think that the, the quote is 100% valid is that, t hat they don't realize the validity of the smaller things that they have done up to that point. And so it's b eing able to transfer your successes of like, okay, like, did you get dressed this morning? Like, did you, di d you get in front of the computer? Like you have evidence, it's smaller evidence, but you have enough e vidence to make the claim that you can do this. And then you do that enough times that you have enoug h evidence to make a claim that you can do this and support it. And I think that's where the big outcome s come from lots of, of, of constrained tiny impulses of saying like, you know what, I'm going to get this t iny victory. And I know how to say no to that. I noticed a hair say no to heroin today or whatever. That w ould be a hard one, you know, probably larger. But that's the idea is just stacking as many of those piece s of evidence that give you proof that you are who you say you are, that you can, you have done what yo u say you can do. Yeah. It's the, the challenge of action or belief first is something that I've been playing around with so much. And my friend James, he wrote a book, the C word like confidence is a book about how to be confident. Right. And I do feel like a big footnote summary could have been that quote from y ou. And the problem is, this is something that I've seen as well. A good example coming from a world wh ere I was successful in business before I was successful personally. I have a skill set now and my capacity within this particular skill set and the performance of what that does are intrinsically linked, right? There 's almost a linear relationship as I become better at networking with guests with recording, with doing al l of the other things, the show increases. When I run a business, there were so many degrees of freedom between my inputs to the business and the success of the business that someone with like malignant im poster syndrome could always explain away how things had gone well. So I would say, Oh, it's because w e timed the market, right? Oh, it was because of like this member of staff that we brought in. I mean, I tr ained him, but really, he would have been great without me or whatever. And self doubt can sort of whe edle its way in, in very sort of nefarious ways when you do that. Then switching to something where you have a relatively undeniable stack of proof, even undeniable to the part of you that wants to deny proof, right? Which is that imposter syndrome after a little while, it's just a crushing weight that you, I call it im poster adaptation. So, you know, if you continue to disprove your imposter syndrome in the real world a nd it persists, you have to admit to yourself that it's got nothing to do with your capabilities and everythi ng to do with your addiction to feeling like an imposter. This is just a trend of how you think about the w orld. You're looking for competence, you have competence without confidence, which is a lack of belief and confidence without competence is self-delusion, right? So you need to have this balance between th e two, but people when they say, well, surely self-belief becomes before action. I'm like, well, not partic ularly, not if that's not your nature. I don't think like you're asking for delusion there. And it is significantl y easier for you to think, I am a fitness person. If you just went to the gym and did 10 pushups, then I am a fitness person. When I go to the gym tomorrow and do 10 pushups, like where's the show me spit and sawdust, where's the reality of this? You know, I agree. Good. Opportunities only look like opportunities in the rear view mirror. Today, they look like risk. How does someone get around this, this asymmetry b etween the fact that in retrospect, it seems totally obvious. And yet the thing that you're looking at right now, looking forward, you go, oh, that might not be obvious in retrospect again. It's tough because a lot of the big wins, you're like, like Uber's the classic example, right? Like, let's start a business where strang ers pick up girls who are 16, you know what I mean, and drive them to their friend's houses. Like that so unds like a terrible idea, right? Like it just, but in retrospect, you're like, no, it'll be totally fine because th ere's going to be a mutual rating system and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right? Taking out the fact that t here are people who've been captured and whatever. And what we'll put that to the side, right? And the thing is, is like, just because we're on the investing side, what we found is that there are always reasons to say no to a deal. You can always find reasons to say no, because there's nothing that's risk-free. Even t reasuries have risk. The US economy could collapse and treasuries could be worth nothing. Like, and you could create a really compelling argument. Lots of influencers spend a lot of time doing that, right? Is it li kely? Maybe? I don't know, but it's probably less likely than a bank failing because if the US fails, all the banks by default are also failing. So which one of these is greater risk? So then it gets, then you start co mparing risks rather than trying to eliminate risks. And so if we're looking at opportunities, that's why lik e risk adjusted return is one of the things that a lot of investors look at, which is like, is there a way that I can appropriately adjust this risk to normalize different opportunities? And I think that that single skill se t is one of, if not the most important skill sets as an entrepreneur, because fundamentally it's betting. Lik e that's what we're doing. We're making bets. Every day we bet whether time we bet with our money. With the limited constraints we have, or limited resources we have against unlimited opportunities. Bec ause that's the hard part, is that there is unlimited women in the red dress. Now there's some fours and there's some sixes and there's some eights, but you have to both rate the girl, right? The opportunity. A nd then also how crazy is she? Right? Or whatever, you know, whatever risk factor you want to associate with this. Is she going to stab me in my sleep? I don't know. Right? Does she have a crazy ex-boyfriend? I don't know about it. I don't know. Right? And so that's why we do the diligence process. But like the way that we, because I just tied up this chapter in the book that's coming out is when we're organizing oppor tunities that we're going to pursue with a business, we look at what are the ones that we have the absol ute highest likelihood of success that we need no new skills and no new effort. If we can do that, or the l east amount of new effort and no new skills, that would be the first thing we're going to do. And then on ce we take off all the ones that take basically no effort and no extra skills, we're like, okay, which ones ta ke more effort and still no skills? And then once we do that, then we're like, okay, now we can start lear ning a new skill. And of the different skills that we could learn, which of these is going to give us the high est leverage as in most output for the least amount of input. And that's pretty much how we tick down which of these opportunities we want to pursue because those have the lowest likelihood of not happen ing. Does this work in the personal world as well? There's someone that isn't investor that isn't in busine ss. That's just thinking about life opportunities. Do I want to learn to salsa dance or code? I think that th e investor frame is a, is, is simply people who have been scored and quantified on their ability to make d ecisions. And so I think that we can learn a ton from how investors make decisions overall. It's like why R ay Dalio's book Principles became like a bestseller, even though 99.9% of people who are reading the bo ok aren't even investors or definitely not investors at his level, but the principles of good decision-makin g are just quantified. And we have a scoreboard for these guys being excellent decision makers. Wherea s most other people, you don't have a real scoreboard. So we can't tell how valid is their advice. And I thi nk that's what makes taking advice from really world-class investors who've been doing it for decades as a great source of information, because we can validate that they have a stack of undeniable proof that t hey are who they say they are. Very nice. Okay. So this was not Churchill this time. So this was, this is so mething that I've actually relied on a little bit myself. Whenever I get to a low point where I think, why d o I even bother? I just remind myself, this is where most people stop. And this is why they don't win. An d this relates to another one, which is a reminder for the gladiators in the arena who feel beat up and sc arred with no hope in sight, build up with no hope in sight, building a business is hard, hard feels shitty. This is what hard feels like. And this is why most people can't do it, but you can. This is what hard feels li ke is so fucking nice to lean on. It is so nice to lean on. Take me through that low point stuff. There's actu ally a story. I'm getting a little goosebumps telling it. So I was way back in my day, like you, a party prom oter, but I was in a fraternity. So I was president of the fraternity. And this was my first semester being p resident. And so you have a pledge class, you get two pledge classes as a president, you get a fall and a s pring, and then that's your tenure. And then another president comes in. And what we knew, and this w ould be really interesting for the audience from a human behavior perspective is that like clockwork, eve ry time we'd start a new pledge class within 14 days, 10 to 14, it was like clockwork. They would all get t ogether and they'd revolt. And they'd say, we don't want to do it anymore. This isn't what we signed up for. This is way fucking harder than we thought it was going to be. Like we thought we were just going to party with you guys. Like that's what we expected, which also shows you how long it takes people to ada pt or acclimate to a very significantly more difficult situation. Right. I'll tell you what happens after, and t hen I'll tell you what happened in between. After we have this kind of talk that we had, and I'll tell you h ow I, how I explained it when I was president, all of a sudden it all vanishes because their expectations o f reality have completely reset. We break reality. Like in the first 10 to 14 days, it's so painful for them be cause it's such a contrast. What we have in doing not the fun stuff. What's not fun. Oh my God. I mean, t hey can't drink, can't talk to girls. The only people that could talk to her brothers or each other, and we'r e mean to them. So they could really only talk to each other. And the whole point here is that we're tryi ng to get them close together. Cause there's a bunch of dudes who don't know each other from differen t parts of the campus. Right. And then we have to get them in eight to 12 weeks to leave as one unit of p eople who know everything about one another, that trust one another, that know everything about the other people in the house. So it's like, how do you do that? Well, there's only X amount of communicatio n you can have every day. So let's cut out anybody who's not us. Okay. And then if we really want them t o be close together, we'll also reinforce that we're mean. But part of what they had to do is they had to l earn everything about everyone else in the house. And so every pledge has to do something that would i mpress a brother. And then they get a signature from their brother, meaning like I approve of you and y ou have to get every single brother signature by the time you're done. Right. And so that's where each o f those side quests become as insane as you might imagine. Right. And there's lots of, you know, there w as lots of hazing back in the day, which is not fun. And you know, a lot of sleepless nights and things like that. And you go from like parting with girls feeling like you're top of the world, all these brothers feedin g you drinks, be like, be like, you're awesome dude. To then like the next day. And this is literally how it happens. This is how like the break in reality happens. We do this huge party to like launch the new class . And the next morning they all wake up. They're all like, they all sleep at the house because that's one o f the requirements and they're all hung over. It got their ties like vomit in the corner or whatever. And w e're like, great, clean it up. And they're like, what? Because up to this point, they haven't cleaned after a party because all they did is got to party, see the girls and then leave. But then all of a sudden they're lik e mopping vomit in the corner and they're hung over and they feel terrible. And they're like, what the fu ck? This is what I signed up for. Right? So anyways, two weeks of this, they get together and they wante d me to meet them. And this always happens because they want to meet on their turf. And I'm like, all ri ght, guys, what's up? And so it's just me. All right. And my vice president and like 25 guys. So there's like a, you know, there's like a size comparison of like just animalistically. There's way more of them than the re is of me. And so I just asked them a couple of questions. I was like, who here before pledging started was like, I want to be a part of this house. The guys were like, okay. Like, okay. Got it. Who here thought it was going to be easy? And I'm like, who here thought it would be hard? They raised their hands. I'm lik e, guys, this is what hard feels like. And all of a sudden there's just like this big exhale in the room. They'r e like expectations get reset. This is normal. You wanted this thing. You expect it to be hard. Reality now matches conditions. So expectations now match conditions. This is what hard feels like. And then all of a sudden it's like they got permission to feel shitty. And by getting permission to feel shitty, they stopped f eeling shitty because they're like, this is just my new world. And so then, you know, you're like, listen, yo u give eight weeks, you're going to get three and a half years. Other people are going to drive you aroun d late at night. Other people are going to clean after you. Like it's a good investment, right? And that it w as a good deal. Like you give one semester and you get the rest of them to just do whatever you want. B ut that concept, like that quote on both of those came from that experience of having someone tell me t his is what hard feels like. This is where most people stop. And this is why they don't win. It's also anoth er beautiful bit of motivation. And given that I spent a little bit of time with Goggins and Cam Haynes, tw o guys, I was telling you about this before you said, must be nice as we walked in. So Cameron Haynes, b ow hunter extraordinaire, lives in Oregon, and he has behind the power rack in his garage where he lifts, he has must be nice written. And I was like, why, why, why have you got that put up on that? And he wa s like, it's because everyone says must be nice to be you Cam must be nice to be sponsored by height an d all of these like top level bow things and go on Rogan. He was, uh, there's a video that went super viral of Goggins losing his shit after John Jones won last weekend, and the guy that he's hugging his cam. So it 's like, it must be nice for you to be backstage at UFC must be nice for this. And I've seen what that guy d oes. And that guy picks up a rock that weighs about 80 pounds. And it's got the word poser written on th e front of it because people call him the poser. And he carries it up a hill that is maybe like 1000 foot of e levation mile and a half high with no fanfare at the end, no finish line doesn't post on social media unles s the teams they're filming it with someone else, and then carries it back down, puts it in the boot of his Raptor drives away. And he just does that because he needs to remind himself that he's doing the stuff t hat is hard. And this is where most people stop. And this is why they don't win combined with this is wh at hard feels like justifies things being hard. Now I do worry, and I find this in myself sometimes as well, t hat you can be so good at dealing with suffering, that you can actually push yourself a little bit too far. A nd you go, I'm starting to bear more burden than I can basically take on. And the art of not burning out i s something that I think a lot of people, if this resonates with you, the art of not burning out is somethin g that you really, really need to be able to feel. And like realizing what happens when you just start to gl ance off the bottom side of it and go, okay, I'm just going to ease off the gas a little. I need to take this af ternoon to go sauna and get some sunshine and chill out and get some food. And then I can put my foot back on maybe a little bit tomorrow and we'll temper it. But it just, it justifies the fact that I use this stat all the time. 90% of podcasts don't make it past episode three. And of the 90% of the 10% that do 90% d on't make it past episode 20. So by making 21 podcasts, you're in the top percentile of all podcasters eve r in history. That's what hard feels like. And that's not even hard. It's just consistent. Fuck me. It's less th an half a year. Yeah. Insane. I hear stats like that. And I just think, man, it is so easy to win. Like that. I m ean, like when I hear that, that's exactly what I think. I'm just like, man, for everyone who's like strugglin g to win, it's like you, like most of the pain that people experience is purely in their own minds. And so to your point, I think there's an interesting one between like burnout versus hard. And so like, for me, burn out is when my, I would define it as my output per unit of time decreases. So I can see that that's measu rable, right? Now, like I can say like number of pages that I edit or the quality of the content that I create , like my output per time. Like the team knows when I like, when I'm like six hours, seven hours into reco rding something, they're like, I literally start like slumping. You're like, like physically, I just start like slum ping and I like my cadence isn't as like, I'm just not as sharp, right? There's that versus emotional burnou t, which I think people mislabel as burnout when really it's just like, they don't know how to reframe real ity. And so what it really is, is they got a comment on a post that bugged them. And like, again, it's like p ulling it from the shadows. It's like, no, this stuff doesn't work. It's like, hold on. What's the one voice tha t actually is coming through? What is the real thing? Well, there's this comment. Okay, great. It's embarr assing to even have to say that. But when you say it, then you admit it and all of a sudden you put it in th e light and the shame kind of starts to evaporate because then you can name it and be like, is this comm ent better than my bigger than my future? Is this comment bigger than me? And one of the things that I, that has helped me was saying like, what's true about this? We'll get back to Alex in one minute. But first I need to tell you about seed seeds. DSO one daily sin biotic is one of the most advanced probiotic and p rebiotics on the market. It's a 24 strain broad spectrum probiotic and prebiotic formulated for digestive gut, immune and additional system benefits with 53.6 billion AFU. It's a two in one via cap technology ca psule in capsule protects against stomach acid, digestive enzymes and bile salts for viability through your digestion. It means that the probiotics will actually make it to the end of the small intestine for delivery, which massively increases how successful this is going to be for you. Altogether, it means that your diges tion is going to move more smoothly. So if you've been thinking that you want to make an upgrade to yo ur digestion, you've been considering using some probiotics and prebiotics for a while. Seed is the most advanced option on the market. Also, you can get 15% off your first month. If you go to seed.com slash modern wisdom and use the code modern wisdom, a checkout that's S E E D dot com slash modern wisd om and modern wisdom, a checkout. Are you familiar with Byron Katie? Do you know her? I've heard he r name. Yeah. The work. She does the work. And the, the, one of the first questions that she asks you is, uh, is it true? How do you know that it can be true? And so it's like the same thing, bringing it from the s hadows, right? Into the light. Okay. You have this sense. There's no, it's like a fucking smell. It's like, may be something's a bit, maybe something's maybe I might be like a piece of shit. Maybe I'm not competent . Maybe I'm not whatever. Okay. Let's. And the next one is like, what if we confront it and say like, what i f they're right now? What? Cause a lot of, I think a lot of effort gets put into trying to deny, deny reality, right? Like there's this clip that I shared from Tom Billy when he was talking about how he gets made fun of for his ears being big. Right. And I think it's a really good clip because his point that he was making, u m, cause it's such a visual, easy example for people to understand. Um, he's like, is that it's true. I do hav e big ears and, and so that's, that's like the, if they're like, you have no right to be making content, are th ey right? Okay. And yeah, I'm still going to do it anyways. Because the thing is like, I, one of the things th at I had earlier on in my career was like, I didn't think I was a really good person. Like, I was like, I'm not a good person. Yeah. Like some people were like, yeah, I just had that right. And I had a history, you kno w, whatever. And one of the things that gave me a lot of respite or relief from that kind of thought proce ss was like, comma, that's okay. Because I can still do the things that create success and not deserve it a nd still get it. And that actually felt very powerful for me because it was like, I don't have to deserve to s uccess. I can still just do the stuff that gets it. It's like, you don't have to, you don't have to deserve the gi rl, but you can still do the things that get her. And do you deserve it when you have her? I don't know. W ho knows? I hate the word deserve to begin with, right? But like that concept, because also I could segu e into like gratitude around, like if you think you deserve it, then you don't, you don't enjoy it. But that h as been super powerful for me, which is like, what if they're right? And because a lot of people just tryin g to, they spend so much effort trying to fight the fact that the comments might be right. This might've b een a fucking terrible thumbnail. You know what? This might've been a boring video. This, this post migh t've been regurgitated content. This post might've been inspired too closely by someone else's post, righ t? What if they're right? And does it make me a piece of shit? What if it does? And you end up getting do wn to base, which is pretty much nothing. All that there is is actions. All that there is is what you're going to do in response to this. You know what? Another brilliant, uh, add addition to this that you kind of me ntioned, which is, uh, the fact that this is what hard feels like most people get to this stage and they deci de to stop. And now the bar is set so low. Goggins said this in the episode with me and it gave me chills when he said it. He was like, it's so easy to be successful nowadays because people are weak. Yeah. Ever ybody's weak. Dana White says it as well. I tell my kids, it is so easy. If you are even a like weekend savag e, you will run these kids over. And for every single person, excuse me, chills again, for every single pers on that likes to castigate the very padded victimhood mentality of the modern world. Okay, cool. Like yo u can, you can rail against people that say that the world is against them, even though it's not. And et ce tera, et cetera. How does that inform the way that you should operate in the world? Right. Well, okay. What you're saying is everybody else is fallible, weak, fragile in some way or another. How does that info rm the way that you act? The way that you should act is holy shit. If I have even a modicum of resilience, this makes the market environment for me so much easier. Whether I want to get the girl by the house, become successful in whatever domain I choose to, the bar is set solo. Yeah. This, if we're going, if we're going tweets, this segues into one of my favorite ones, which is you stay in poverty until you learn the fir st lesson of poverty, which is two words, my fault. And so when I was younger, I was really angry at my p arents like many people are, right? Justified or not, doesn't really matter. I was very angry and I blamed t hem for the woes of my life. And I realized that when I was 19, that these people that I hated, I was givin g all the power over the fact that I wasn't the person I wanted to be. And I was like, well, it's their fault. And the idea that I had actually given these people that I hated power over my success was ultimately so mething that made me feel sick to my stomach and was what allowed me to point the finger of blame in wards and say my fault. And then at least take ownership over the fact that like, and like, sure, maybe yo ur dad didn't hug you enough or maybe your mom wasn't present or whatever it is. Right. It's like, and, a nd like, I said this the other day and it'll probably piss off a lot of your audience. So, you know, we can pu t our soft earphones on. Like if you were, if you, if you suffered from racial inequality, if you suffered fro m gender inequality, if you suffered from being born in Bangladesh, if you were racially, sexually abused your entire life, you would be completely justified in the fact that you are not achieving the things that o ther people who didn't have those disadvantages have achieved. And I say this as a white guy who was b orn in America to a doctor father. I understand that, but at the same degree, you have the opportunity t hat Chris nor I have, which is that you can be an inspiration to people who just who went through the sa me thing and succeeded comma despite those circumstances, because I can promise that there is someb ody who has had it worse and has done it better. And I think that that one single point of proof and like t here's a global point of proof that you can look for, for sure. But like you can be that very local point of p roof in your community or sub community. And I think as soon as we shed that, that's like, I just, I'm a bi g fan of a power follows the blame finger. So like wherever you point the blame fingers where the powe r follows. And so it's like, if you point it, if you point it to the government, government has the power. If you pointed at your, your spouse and say like, it's their fault that I'm not in shape. It's their fault. They n ever let me do anything. It's like, well, you're giving them all the power. And so it's like, until you're like, i t's my fault. It's also becomes my responsibility. What is, what if it's not your fault? It doesn't matter. An d like I can't run marathons because I lost my leg at birth. And either you can just never try or you put th e metal thing on and you do it anyways. So this is one of the themes that I'm very interested in to do wit h your work in general. And it's one of the reasons why it bridges the gap from what we're going throug h, which are, you know, some really lovely philosophical insights and all of the rest of it. The differences you seem to have a knack to be able to drag yourself out of the philosophy and get yourself into action. There's not too much mental masturbation that goes on. So let's say that there's someone who's listenin g to this podcast, you know, thousands of people that are listening who are that person, millions, thousa nds of people that are that person, there'll be, there'll be a lot of people that are listening. Don't worry. That person that goes, I, I love when I hear these aphorisms and things, and maybe it goes on the whiteb oard that's on the front of my fridge for a couple of months. How does that person get from mental mas turbation around it to action? That this, this impacts my life in a tangible way that actually makes a differ ence to me. Any of the things that we go through today. All right. Two things. One is knowing the input o utput equation. The second is knowing what your fuel is going to be. So if you can't define the inputs an d outputs that are going to get you what you want, then there's no way to start, right? Cause you don't k now what you're supposed to do. So you have to define it down to like the most basic first actions. It's li ke, if I want to start creating content, that means I have to post something. If it means I have to start doi ng cold, I always think in terms of business, cause that's what I'm in, but like, I'm either doing a cold reac h out. I'm doing a cold, cold, cold email, cold DM, whatever that is. I have to make a piece of content. I h ave to post it. I have to make a podcast. I have to make a YouTube video, I have to make a short, whatev er that is, make a blog post. Um, I have to run an ad, right? I have to, I have to run the ad after press go. I have to spend the money, whatever it is, like whatever that core initial action, lift the weight, put the sh oes on, get in the car, whatever the input is, you have to define what the input is. That's going to get you the output you want. Now, once you know what that input output is, the next one is why aren't you doi ng it? Right? And so I think a lot of people are looking for something that is very hard to find. And so, an d then they attribute their lack of success or lack of action because they don't have passion or motivatio n, right? And I was the same way. And so the short story around this was that I, uh, I, I watched all the T ed talks in college. Like that was like what I was like, I'm not watching YouTube. I'm watching Ted talks. A nd I was like, and then I realized, and then I heard the term mental masturbation and I was like, Oh, that' s definitely what I was doing. I was like, my life hasn't changed at all. And then I got my job out of college and I would read all the self-help books. I read like every night. It's all I did. I just read all these self-help books. And I found one of them that said, there are people who are wantrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. And I remember hearing that word, wantrepreneur. And I was like, it made me feel sad. I was like, I want to be fucking wantrepreneurs. I was like, I'm not some bitch. Like, but I was like, but what if they're right ? I am a wantrepreneur. I'm not an entrepreneur. I want to be one and I'm not. And from that point, it to ok me six months to quit my job, to actually decide to do the entrepreneurial thing. And the thing, there are many things that contributed to me being able to leave. And I think a lot of it's not like people are lo oking for one thing. It might be a big bag of wise, a lot of them, right? That add up together to be above your action threshold. And I think in the early days, people are looking for the big carrot. They want the big vision. They want the big passion, but they don't have it. But I want to, I'll give you the first rule of en trepreneurship that I've learned, which is use what you have. And a lot more people have pain. A lot mo re people have anger. A lot more people have shame. And if you can use that as your gas in the beginnin g, you'll eventually get to a point where you can get out of that loop and then find something that you ar e really passionate about. But if you can't tie your shoes, you can't lift the weight, you can't send the DM , then you have to start with whatever you have. And so for me, it was hatred of my current existence. I hated being a wantrepreneur. I hated being a wannabe. I hated being one of those people who like talke d about all the things that we're going to do and didn't do anything. Um, I hated living the life that my da d wanted me to live. I was, I was his bitch. That's what it was. I was his bitch. I was living his dreams out, not mine. And that was, you know, led to that other tweet, which was, um, sometimes your parents dre ams have to die in order for yours to live. And for me, I realized that the idea that my father had of me a s his son, that image had to die in order for the image of myself that I wanted to be to live, because I kep t trying to quit my job and go be an entrepreneur. And every time I'd have the conversation, be like, ah, come over, we'll talk about it. We'll have dinner, you know what? And he'd always talk me off the ledge. It was always over and over again. Yeah. And or great authoritarian, um, you don't need to persuade wh en you have compliance. Um, and so, um, and so everybody has that person or, or it might actually be so mebody who's talking off the ledge, um, or might should be a voice in your head. It doesn't really matter because that voice in person that only happened once or twice probably keeps talking to you when you'r e at home. Um, but the big thing for me when I, when I decided to make the jump in mind you, I was suc h a bitch about it that I, I had to drive across the country before I called him to tell him that I'd left. Yeah. I remember that guy. I didn't want to, yeah, I didn't want to confront him. Um, which he then like flew of f the handle about. Um, but I just knew, and this is the Tony Robbins quote, but it's just the, when the pa in of staying the same is greater than the pain of change. And I think that I think pain moves people far, f ar more effectively than pleasure does. Like the easy thing to way to prove it is like pointing a gun at so meone's head and you have absolute compliance and they will do what they need to do. Right? Automat ically, just like that. Like death is the great motivator and the gun just reminds you. And so I think that if you can create the figurative gun to your head of the pain that you're experiencing, and then I'm a, I'm a big fan of future casting out negative scenarios. So people talk about like positive visualization. I prefer n egative visualization, which is what if I keep doing what I'm currently doing for the next 10 years? What my life looked like then that usually takes my current pain and then just magnifies it. And then that allo ws me to get my action threshold high enough that it goes over the edge so that I can take that first mov e. And so if you know what the inputs outputs are of what you need to do, the guy who has the little qu ote on his wall and you figure out whatever fuel you've got, not the one you wish you had, but the one y ou've got, and you use that to do the first input, you cross the line. You're in the game. I told a story on t he episode that I did with Goggins about bullying in school. And this was something where I like opened up about a topic that I haven't spoken about a ton because it made me feel weak and it made me feel vu lnerable and so on and so forth. But one of the things that's only really recently happened, and it's actua lly been assisted by the guy that reached out and messaged me, this dude messaged and said that he wa s sorry for what had happened. His daughter was going to school and it made him reflect on his time at s chool and how he treated me. And he was like, dude, I just wanted to say that I'm sorry. I don't even kno w if you're going to see this. I'm happy that you seem to be happy, but I just had to get it off my chest. A nd that really helped. Not that I was carrying much, but one of the questions, you've spoken about your dad and this kind of authoritarian relationship and living out that dream. How did you avoid or how have you got yourself to a stage now where you're no longer driven by a chip on your shoulder toward him? B ecause I think that there are a lot of people that go through challenges in their past that find fuel in it an d they go, wow, I can be fueled by hatred. Phenomenal. I can alchemise this toxic thing into something which is useful. But I would imagine that that has a shelf span, right? That if you keep on using that for lo ng enough, there are more optimal ways that you could start to move perpetually under your own moti on transmuted into something else. How did you get past having this chip on your shoulder about the rel ationship that you'd had with your dad and where it had set you back or forward or whatever? Or have y ou? Yeah, I think I have. I think my realisation was, you know, first the goal was make as much of my dad , then it was make more than my dad, then it was make more than my dad had ever made. And I realise d that the approval that I had that I sought was always going to be moved. Right? I mean, I've told this st ory before, but maybe not your audience. But like when I, when I, my dad and I didn't really speak a ton, you know, we text in, you know, two minute phone call, hey, you're alive. Okay, cool. But for that was ki nd of like for like five ish years after I left home to go do the gym thing. And only once gym launch was li ke printing money. And so we were, I think I was taking a million and a half a month at like 27 or somethi ng like that. And he gave me a call out of the blue and like, my dad doesn't like cold call me. And so I'm si tting at dinner and I step outside and he says, hey, you're gonna want to sit down for this. And I was like, okay. He's like, I'm sorry. And I was like, about what? And he was like, everything. And I remember in the moment actually feeling nothing. And thinking that was curious and then being like, huh, okay. And I pro bably should have just like, accepted it for the olive branch that he was probably trying to like, lean out t o me. But here's what I said instead. I said, you know how people get up on stage when they win the aw ards and they're like, I just want to thank my mom and dad for always being there, always believing in m e. I was like, I'm not going to say that. I was like, cause you weren't and you didn't believe in me. And rig ht after that, he was like, well, we'll see how long it lasts. And so it was after that phone call that I realize d that everything that I'd done to that point was to try and beat him at his game because everything my dad cared about and not everything, he's a good guy. Like, you know, we're fine now. But like when I wa s growing up and it's fairly common in most foreign families to be very like money driven. And I always k new that kind of subconsciously, he would never say this, but like I felt it because whenever he introduc ed somebody, you tell me how much they made immediately. He'd be like, this is John. John makes this. Like this is Paul. He makes this. Like it was just, it was just like the worth and the name was like immedia tely tied together. And so I realized that I was trying to win his game rather than playing my game. And I think when that happened, it was the same instance of kind of like the blame finger, but just at a differe nt level of saying like, okay, well, I don't blame my dad anymore, but I'm still playing his game. And so I' m winning not my game, I'm winning someone else's. And so I think when I was like, okay, well then I ha ve to define the game and the meaning of the game that I want to play. I have more responsibility now b ecause I have to define the rules of what matters most to me, et cetera. But that was where I feel like I g ot, and maybe there's more that I'll impact later, but that was kind of the next level, at least from my aw areness of how I perceived what I was going after. Do you remember you, I think you spoke about peopl e that break the law in an attempt to make money. And you said, we sacrifice the thing we want for the thing that's supposed to get it. So we sacrifice freedom for money in the hopes that the money will give us freedom downstream from that. This is one of the best things that I learned for all of last year. And yo u created the framework and then I filled it in. So I talked about the tension between success and the de sire to feel like we're enough. I think that this speaks to what you're on about here. Success is a strange t hing. Presumably we want success because we think a more successful life will bring us more happiness, meaning and fulfillment. Here's the problem. We sacrifice the thing we want, happiness, for the thing w hich is supposed to get it, success. Failure can make you miserable, but I'm not sure that success will ma ke you happy. And if you end up with an equation, if you could imagine, like we sacrifice happiness to ac hieve success in the pursuit of happiness. Like if you just remove success from both sides of the equation , what are you left with? It's just happiness. Now, there are, we can't deny the fact that we're statusful b eings, that we require external validation. We can't just go and live in a cave and in peaceful bliss and all the rest of it. Like there are things that we need to do, but I do feel like a lot of the time we overclock ou r lives with regards to success and the pursuits that we go through in an attempt to do this. And that we sacrifice the thing we want for the thing which is supposed to get it is like, I see that all the time. I always ask myself, am I overcomplicating this? Like am I doing more than I need to do? Is there a simpler way to do this? I think, I mean, I think this is a actually a game theory thing and you're from, okay, so I can, I can go on it or I can not if you want. Bring it on, bring it on. Yeah. So I mean, Simon Sinek popularized this, b ut you have finite and infinite games, right? Finite games where you have known players agreed upon ru les and an outcome that, that wins the game, right? And then infinite game, you have known and unkno wn players, no rules. And the point of the game is to keep the game going. And what happens is that pe ople apply finite rules to infinite games and then they wonder why it's not working. What's an example? So a finite game would be like baseball. No, the players went at the end of the game, the person you tall y up the ones where the most runs and you win and there's, you can't, you can't run, you can't hold the ball and run it around the bases. Like there's rules of play with an infinite game. The Vietnam war isn't a simple example that Simon Sinek gives, which is basically the U S lost the Vietnam war because they wer e, they were applying a finite structure, which is we're going to win this war. And the Vietnamese people were, were playing an infinite game structure, which is we're going to stay alive and keep fighting. And a s long as someone is staying alive and keeping fighting, they will beat the person who's trying to end so mething. And so the infinite frame always conquers the finite. And the thing is, is that most of the games worth playing are infinite. And so if you were trying to get in shape, you don't win getting in shape. The point is to stay in shape for the rest of your life. You don't win at marriage. The point is to stay married. You don't win at business. The point is to stay in business and keep doing business. So the point of the g ame is to keep playing. And I think if, if the six, and I would imagine success, if you put all of those things together, it's an infinite game. And so the point of success is to do the things that make you successful. A nd so if you're doing the things that are making you successful, then you are by definition winning. And I think that for me, redefining what is a perfect day and living as many of those days in a row as I possibly can, to me, that's winning. And I, and I obviously have a relatively contrarian worldview, but which is tha t like, when we die, nothing happens. And you know, we know what it was like to die because we've all b een dead before, which is when we were, before we were alive. But I don't think that what I will do will ultimately matter in 500 million years. And so that kind of eliminates a lot of the pressure for me around like the external outcome. Sure. I'm human. There are definitely motivators, but if I can just over time ch ip away at how much that weighs on the scale and I can keep putting more and more coins on the other side towards the infinite game of like the point of the game is to keep playing. And like, there are some t hings that I remind myself over and over again. It's like the point of the game is to keep playing. That's th e point. That is the point is to just keep playing. The point of the game is to keep playing. I very much lik e that. What was that you found out, the three trait, the three most common traits of highly successful p eople. Do you remember those? Yeah, it was, it's so funny. Aspiriotic conflicts. So the three most commo n traits of hyper successful people that they looked at. And it was interesting because there's, the influe ncer world wants to be like, you have to wake up at five or you have to do cold plungers, whatever the f uck, right? But the thing that, but there was actually very few that they all had in common. So number o ne was that they had a superiority complex. They thought they were better than other people and that t hey deserved more. The second is that they suffered from massive insecurity and feeling that they woul d never be enough. And third, they had impulse control. And so you've got this combination of people w ho are like, I want to do this big thing. So this big toward thing. And they've got this big away pain. That's like, I'm never going to be enough. I always have to do more. And then they have impulse control that ke eps them focused on the goal without seeing the woman in the red dress or getting pursued by her. And that like, so it's like shoot high, have a big thing that motivate, like have a big tiger behind you and stay o n the path. Have you ever heard Jordan Peterson talk about that study of starving rats in a tube with a s pring attached to the tail? No. Fucking brilliant. This is, this is what you're talking about. So starving rats are placed into a tube and they have a spring that is attached to the tail that can measure the force that they pull out. And that's a proxy for desire. Then they waft the smell of cheese in from the front of the t ube and the rat poles and they measure how hard they want to go. And you think these rats are starving . They would be pulling pretty hard. Then they do another iteration of the study. This time they waft the smell of cheese in from the front, but they waft the smell of a cat in from behind and the rats pull harder . And what's the lesson that you'd not only need to run towards something that you want, but you need to run away from something that you fear. Now the problem, and this is, I like super superiority complex , crippling insecurity, impulse control. I like that. The problem is the people who we admire the most du e to the most success in the real world don't necessarily have the most admirable internal states. That to me isn't necessarily the most peaceful, blissful way to live your life. What does it say that especially in th e modern world, we revere the people who have external accolades of success. And yet the three most c ommon traits of these super successful people lead from a place which is almost objectively miserable, u nadmirable. Yeah. How do we, how do we square this circle? I think it's just what are we solving for? So, um, like, I mean, a lot of people, I love watching Last Dance, which is Michael Jordan's mini docu-series. Phenomenal. Yeah. Unbelievable. Um, I think most people could see him there and be like, I don't know if I really envy this guy's life. Like he still seems like pretty upset despite being a billionaire, despite all th ese, you know, these, these, these other things. And so I think that if like, what are we solving for? Like Mike, my closest friend, Dr. Kashi, he has a statement cause he coached Olympic, uh, Olympic teams and he was like, champions are broken. We're like, huh? He's like, they, people look at champions and try an d find something that that champion has that they don't have. And he's like, but it's not that at all. He's li ke, they lack something everyone else has, which is an off button. They just don't stop. And at the end of the day, like if we're, if we're optimizing for outcomes, then the most broken person will win the person who has the absolute biggest desire for achievement, the absolute biggest fear or pain that they're runni ng away from and the hardest impulse control. Now, impulse control, most people would agree is a goo d thing. The other two, not as much. And so what are we optimizing for? What problem are we solving? It's my favorite. It's probably the number one most frequently asked question that I asked to our portfoli o companies. Whenever we're about to do anything, which is what problem are we solving? If the probl em that we're solving is that I want to be content. Well, there's a lot of ways to do that. You don't need t o do all these other things. If the problem you're solving is that you want to be the richest man in the wo rld. Well, you're going to have to have a lot of superiority, complex. You're gonna have a lot of crippling i nsecurity and you're gonna have a lot of impulse control and you have to wait a long time. There's a quo te from Jason Pargan that says, except that all of your heroes are full of shit. Your heroes aren't gods. Th ey're just regular people who probably got good at one thing by neglecting literally everything else. Yeah . I just, I agree with the statement. Fucking money. It's just so interesting to me. I've been thinking about this to do with Billy McFarland. Let me just get this in. Hit it. And that's okay. Because if they wanted tha t, then that's the problem that they're solving for. Like I get criticized all the time for work-life balance. P eople are like, well, you don't have any hobbies, Alex, and you don't whatever. Right? And I'm like, I don' t fucking want any. So why do I have to sacrifice things that I would prefer to do to do things I don't wan t to do to satisfy your objective measure of what you deem as work-life balance? Why? So that's what, t his is where you were talking about, uh, was it optimized for the outcome or, uh, what's the metric of su ccess? Uh, yeah. He was saying like, what, what is it that people are optimizing for? Right. It seems to m e that you have stepped back and decided axiomatically, this is the thing that I'm optimizing for. That I e njoy most doing. Yes. That's, I enjoy playing the game. And so everything I do is about the game. Yes. My podcast is called the game. I draw pictures all day about business. I write books about business. I make c ontent about business. I spend the rest of my time. I've never seen a picture. Oh dude, a hundred million offers. Zillion pictures in there. Oh, are they done by you? A hundred percent all of the drawings are min e. And a hundred of our leads has like a hundred doodles in it. Yeah. Oh yeah. Are they nice? I think so. T hey got, they cute. Yeah. They got little animals in there. They don't have animals and I'm not, I'm not, I' m not going to look at them. There's, there's little bag of money, big bag of money. Like that's how nice dead serious. But no, but like, and, and I spend the rest of my day doing business. And so it's like, well, w hy don't you garden? Cause I don't care. Here's the other thing, right? I always talk about this Steffi grap h. Um, they, one of the greatest female tennis players of all time. And she gets tested when she's 10 yea rs old, 11 years old, and she's in some tennis academy and they gauge the players on two criteria. They g auge them on desire to train, uh, and skillset. And she was 10 out of 10 on both. So, okay. Not only has s he got the raw materials to make a phenomenal tennis player, but she'll outwork you. And to her, it won 't even feel like work. That's fucking terrifying. And that's why I do think for the people that look at yours elf and say, uh, Alex is on a road to burnout. It's because you are using your theory of mind about how y ou would feel if you had to work as much as you do. But okay. What is the thing that you can do longer t han anybody else? And to them, it looks like work and to you, it looks like play or feels like play. What w ould that be? Oh, well, for me, it would be a computer games or knitting or rock music or whatever it is. Okay. So imagine if you've just got to do that all day, but instead of it being rock music, it was fucking bu siness. Someone commented the other day. Um, was it your sprinting on a treadmill? Uh, they were con cerned that the pace that the show is going out at was going to cause me to burn out. And in retrospect, I'm, you know, in five years time, I might go fuck, yeah, I was moving too quick. But I don't, I don't think t hat like, I work at the pace that I like to work at. And I also like to see where those limits are. And that's exciting to me to go, okay, just how much harder can I go here? And then again, you've got to temperate with that's burnout. Like that's just the beginning of it. And you only know that after you've burned out li ke 30 times. Uh, but that's, it's tried to say after atomic habits by James clear, right? But the intersection of like, what you love to do, what you're good at and what you can be paid for is like slap bang in the mi ddle of it. Slaves worked all the hours they were awake for their entire lives in American history, in Egypt ian history, in the rest of the world that had slaves, which is most of the world at some given point. I thin k like if they can do it, so can I. Now you're like, well, did they have a happy existence? Well, they didn't get to pick the work they did, but it means that you can work. That's if you have the cap behind you, you can work every hour of the day. I'm like, well, if you get to have the cheese and you get to eat the chees e the whole way you're going, then I mean, there's the famous quote, uh, you know, the person who, th e person who loves walking walks further than the person who loves the destination. Right? And so like, I think it's the same thing, but the everyone, so many people want to project their idea of, of what they t hink your life should be like onto you. And it's just completely irrelevant. It just doesn't matter. Like if all I did, if I, if I weren't married, right? Cause people were like, okay, well, he is married and like, I am in sh ape, but I also just like working out. But if I didn't have either of those things and all I did was work all da y, more people would talk about the work life balance thing for me than they currently do. And who car es? I just like, I just, I fundamentally am like, you are going to die and you're not going to matter. And I'm going to die and I'm not going to matter. So why do I care about what you're going to say when you're n ot even going to show up to my funeral? Who gives a shit? In other news, there has never been about a time to start an online side hustle and hosting it is making creating a website as easy as possible. If you'r e looking to start your own website or online shop, but don't have the technical or design skills, you can l ook no further than hosting it with hosting her. You can launch your own website or online shop in minu tes and thrive online for $2 99 a month hosting. It provides an all in one website builder domain hosting and professional email service. It's the most affordable option for getting your online hustle started. And it's ridiculously simple to use with hosting. You can launch a WordPress website in just one click or use t heir drag and drop website builder. Plus you can choose from over 150 beautiful and fully customized te mplates for e-commerce, blogs, portfolios, landing pages, and more. If you need a logo hosting or has go t you covered with their AI logo maker powered by chat GPTs API. You can create a logo in seconds and make your brand stand out head to hosting.com slash modern wisdom for an extra 10% off. If you use th e code modern wisdom at checkout, that's H O S T I N G E R.com slash modern wisdom and modern wisd om. A checkout. What is it that you're taking an enjoyment from then? The one step deeper than this. T here is something that you're optimizing for. I love, I love the reward. What reward? The micro rewards I get every day. Of operating a business. Of all things business related. Yep. So I love writing the book abo ut business. I love talking to my editor about what we're changing. Oh, that's a really way better way to s ay it. Right. Or I like tweeting about the thoughts that we have. I love doing discussions like this cause I t alk about my favorite topic, which is business for the most part. Um, like, and I actually am pretty averse to punishment. I've learned that about me. Like I do not like it. And when I say punishment in the formal sense, like things you don't like, right? And so like I avoid them like the plague. I don't do them. And so I j ust do as many of the things I can that reward me as frequently as possible. But from the outside to a lot of people that looks like punishment. Right. Yes. Interesting. How can someone, uh, cut through societal expectations, the ways they've dealt with past trauma, expectations from parents, all of the things that aren't their thing. Yeah. How can somebody, because what you've done, again, axiomatically a priority, t his is the thing I want to optimize for. How do people find the thing that they want to optimize for? I don 't have a thing Alex. That's great for you with your business. It just happens to be something else that's a t the intersection of making a shit ton of money. Yeah. How do I find it? And I was lucky with that. Yes. T hat just happened to be the intersection. Cause if I love knitting and I didn't like business, that's a whole set because like you can turn knitting into a business, but like, if I only like knitting, then there's a way to make a living from that. But to, to, to get to the person who's like, uh, how do I find my thing? Um, I'm a big fan of being directionally correct rather than absolutely correct. And so I think what happens is most people are trying to find the perfect answer when they have no perspective from which to make a judg ment. They're trying to find the perfect thing to do when they haven't done anything. So how would you have perspective to being a judgment? Like if you try a lot of things in the beginning, which you have to know what your inputs outputs are, decrease your action threshold enough with either a cheese or a cat , whatever you need. Most people have more cats than they have cheese in the beginning. So use the ca t to start running towards something. And the thing is, is the rat it's so simple. It's like there's cheese her e, but what you really just need to know is that there's cheese out there and there's a cat behind me for sure. And so if I just go anywhere away from the cat, I will have a higher likelihood of getting closer to th e cheese. Not that I will find it, but I will get closer to it. And I think it's, and I've lived my life through a se ries of rapid iterations, not trying to pick the right thing because I just like, even when I was starting my f irst business, I was between frozen yogurt, test prep, and a gym. Those are the three businesses that I w as choosing between. Makes complete sense. Yeah. A lot of things that I like, right? So I was choosing be tween those things and like, why were those the things? I was like, well, I was pretty good at taking tests in college. So I get that. I like frozen yogurt. And I mean, it sounds simple, but like, I was like, everybody l ikes something, right? And I actually didn't know that I was going to like business. That's the crazy thing. Because also, when you and I were younger, Instagram wasn't there. None of this shit existed and entre preneurship wasn't cool yet. And so I just hated my job. A lot. And I hated where I lived a lot. And so I wa s like, well, I will just not be here. So cat don't know what city I'm going to go to, but just not this city. An d went across the furthest place from Baltimore, which is California. And then I was like, okay, well, wha t do I hate doing? Well, let me not do that, which is, you know, sitting on meetings all day and doing wha tever, you know, doing grunt work for shit that I felt like was meaningless. And instead, I was like, I'll do f itness because I like fitness. And I was like, at the very least, I'll do something I enjoy, which I liked fitnes s at the time. And if you're like, well, I don't like doing anything. Well, it's like, well, then that's impossibl e because your brain is wired to be rewarded for things. And so you are doing things that reward you. Th at's why you do them. Like everything we do is because we've been rewarded for doing things like that i n the past. And we project the same activities and we predict that doing things like we did in the past th at reward us, reward us again in the future. That's where our behavior comes from. And so it's like, okay, well, what has rewarded you in the past? Where's the cat? Go the opposite way. Yeah. So the reverse rol e model is something similar, but you're almost taking this into a lifestyle perspective. So the reverse rol e model is if you live in a town or you grow up somewhere and there's no one around you like the sort o f person that you want to be like, but there are tons of people like the person you don't want to be like, you can say there's a way marker. I don't want his relationship with gambling. I don't want the way that he handles his finances. I don't want the way that him and his wife communicate with each other. It's lik e, okay, there we go. Warren Buffett or Munger says, like an amazing amount of success has been achie ved by not trying to be smart, but avoiding being stupid. So there's your way markers there. But what yo u're saying is that this is almost like a abstracted lifestyle version of this. These are all of the things that I hate to do. What's the opposite of that? And the challenge of, I don't know precisely what the exact thin g is, therefore I can't move toward it, is one of mine, which is perfectionism is procrastination masquera ding as quality control. I was going to say it's a fallacy. It's a decision making fallacy. This is why investor f rames can be so useful. If you're looking for the perfect investment, you won't find one. There's always d ownsides. Every investment has risk. And so using that frame, you're like, well, there's all these paths, w hich one do I choose? The one thing that's guaranteed is if you keep the money, it will go down in value because it'll inflate. So not investing is the only way guaranteed to not get a return on your investment. I s that the fact that inflation exists? Do you think that's a useful motivating force for business people? Yo u could imagine a different form of world economics where embedded growth obligations weren't there and whatever. Inflation didn't happen. Do you think that that sort of motivates people to actually be like , oh, fuck. I need to do something with this money. I can't just sit and leave it in the bank. I think you're g oing to motivate investors. But the business people would just probably keep more coins in their vault a nd just keep transacting. Yeah, they'd be less likely to deploy capital faster. Because if you feel like there' s a cost of capital that's higher for letting it sit there, then you have a higher urgency to do something wi th it. If you have less urgency, then you only do it when you know it's going to crash. You gain nothing fr om underestimating your opponent. How does this relate to your world? A lot of the tweets that I have actually come from conversations I have with our portfolio CEOs. They'll say something. They're like, oh, we're way better than those guys. I think somebody said something like that on a meeting. I just thought about it and I was like, what a stupid thing to say. I was like, you gain nothing from that statement. I was like, you literally gain ... What do you gain from that? You gain complacency. You increase the likelihood of looking stupid in the case that they do crush you. I was like ... Because on the flip side, the only things that upset the guys who are on the top of the mountain is hubris. There's really no reason that the guy o n the top of the mountain should ever lose. He has the most resources. He has the highest perspective. He has the most vision. He has everything. He has all the food at the top of the mountain. Yet, history sh ows us humans act like humans. We lose because of our egos and because it hurts to say, what if that pe rson's better than me? I think that if you ... It actually is really parallel with a different tweet that they to ok off, which was people underestimate how much smarter you can see them if you have 20 minutes of preparation. Yeah. That's so fucking true. Right. It's believable. People get into businesses and like, well, what if you actually had to face this team? People are like, well, I don't want to practice. It's like, why no t? Why wouldn't you practice? A lot of fighters show up not having prep for the fight, not really hard. I'm like, what do you gain from that? Because if you practice really hard, you get better, period. All it is is pu rely an ego play. The only win you get from not prepping and showing up to the fight is that you appear t o be more naturally gifted, and I would rather be known for my work ethic than my natural gift as an asi de, but you appear to be more naturally gifted and then you win by less than you would if you prepared. You gain nothing. It's purely an ego thing, but we do it all the time. My Twitter stream is just thoughts to self. I deleted it because I didn't have enough room in my profile to say it, but it was originally like notes to self. It's just to remind me of things as they come up, because I fall into that trap too. I'm like, oh, we'r e going to outperform this guy, or this company is going to crush it. I'm like, but we don't gain anything f rom that. We just have to assume that we're always the underdog, and then they've got to trick up their sleep that we don't know about. It's like that's the whole, only the paranoid survive. A reverse of that or something that's interesting to do with people at the top of the pyramid is there's only one way I know t o beat people who copy you. Get bigger. It's not by direct conflict, but by making them shrink into irrelev ance by comparison. Mm-hmm. Agree. I mean, especially when it comes to content creation, I imagine t hat this is something that you see one thing that becomes effective, and then downstream from that, a l ot of stuff happens. If you've done the hard work of forging ahead, trailblazing, pathfinding, split testing, wow, we finally came up with this thing, and then within four weeks, you're like, oh, brilliant. This is all o ver the internet now. Well, I always see it as a first mover thing, which is like, they need me, I don't need them. They require me in order to iterate their content, I don't, because I don't look at theirs to make mi ne. And it's because like mine is- Everybody knows, man, as well. Everybody knows. Every single person t hat's copying thumbnails, that's copying subtitle styles, that's going after the same talking points, they k now deep down that what they're doing is creating a rough-hewn pixelated equivalent of what they thin k they can try and be. At best, what you can hope for is being the second best Alex Hormozi in the world. Right. And I'll win that game. But like, they would beat me at being whoever they are. Correct. I mean, t his sounds so trite, but like, I'm trying to say this in a different way so that it hits, because like people ha ve heard like, there's only one version of you. Like, there's just so much actual meat to that concept. Bec ause this is, you know, Gary originally did the document don't create thing. And I think that the reason t hat the content that we have is quote original is because like, we document, I document through Twitter , the things that come up in my actual life. And so it's not like, what's trending right now? It's like, well, I had this meeting with a CEO and he fucking said that thing about the competitor and that's my tweet. A nd there wasn't somebody else in the meeting also going, Oh, brilliant. That's a lesson that I can take tha t I can use for my Twitter. Right. And so it's all from like original source. And if everyone else, like, and th is is on the flip side, if you're the person who's doing this, like you need to find what your original source is of content because like you will always be second or second, you'll never be first is really the, is really t he statement. And like, at least for me, if I'm playing a game, I want to play for the long haul. And the po int of the game is to keep game going. And if you want to keep the game going, then you can't be depen dent on someone else. There was another one that I thought was quite interesting, especially given the kind of current world of men's advice and rich guy existence online, more people stay poor because of t heir egos than get rich off them. Yeah. At the moment, it seems like egos are being valorised on the inter net, especially among men's advice. Yeah. How is it that more people stay poor because of their egos an d get rich off them? If there's a bunch of examples of people with seemingly big egos that also have mon ey. I think that's what's the fallacy. Whatever the cognitive fallacy for what's in front of your eyes. Availa bility bias. I think there are far more people who are successful and significantly more successful than th e people who are visible on content who, I would say many of those people aren't actually that successf ul. And so if we're looking at the objective measure of success as like net worth, just for the sake of this conversation, there are far more people who are rich and anonymous than there are people who flaunt their labor guineas that they rented for a day. Now, if you really think about the influencer world of busi ness, there are not that many guys who actually are really in the game. Most of those guys sell somethin g from their platform about building a platform. It's probably like 98, 99%. And so there's only like a very small select and to be fair, those guys are all pretty humble. You look at the Garys, you look at the Andes , you look at the Tom Billy, like these, Ed Mylett, like the guys who have become in the business space, t hey're not particularly egotistical guys. And it's usually because they know what hard feels like and they know what it's like to be inadequate over and over and over again, because you only can be inadequate i f you go to another level. If you feel amazing, it's because you haven't moved up. Does that mean that if somebody wants to be successful and they feel like they've still got an ego, that they need to do some w ork on dissolving that? I think they just need to do harder things. Like you need to fight harder opponent s. Like you're winning this little pool. The only way you can maintain an ego is by believing that you're a big fish in a little pond. Right. It's a big fish in whatever size pond you think it is. And if you're a big fish, y ou're not in a big enough pond. It's totally delusion. It's hard to comprehend. Like Bezos, if you've heard any of his interviews, seems like a very humble guy, but like you could have a hundred billionaires in a ro om and he is worth the same amount as them. And then if you had each one of those billionaires is a tho usand to millionaires, he's still worth the same amount as 1,100, whatever, a hundred thousand milliona ires and then him. So like there's just levels to it. And I think the moment you get the ego is the moment you stop growing because you feel like you beat the level, but you just keep repeating the level rather th an moving up because there is a harder boss and they just haven't faced it yet. I suppose it's an easy way , you know, if you were going to a karate class, but you decided instead of going to the adult one to go t o the one that's under 11s and you're going to kick the fuck out of all of these. Yeah. And you video it an d you're like, look at me. And it just happens to be that they're the same size as you. And like, just imagi ne they're like dumb on the inside, but they're human, you know, adult size and you're kicking the shit o ut of them. It's like, yeah, do it to Jones, right? Like not going to happen. And so like, I'm going to say this . Yeah, I was just, I'm just trying to say this the way that I take this the way I mean it. I get comments fro m people who are like, love your humility, Alex. And like, I don't think I'm that humble of a guy being rea l, at least internally in my own head, but I am reminded daily of my inadequacy on the business game. B ecause like right now we've moved up a level in terms of like, now we're making, well now we're doing d eals. Now we're investing in companies. We're taking on big risk. We're writing checks, like another level of the game than just owning one, not to say that owning one business and growing it is not hard. It abs olutely is a different kind of heart. But like I'm getting into this game and I'm absolutely the small fish. Li ke Warren Buffett made $90 billion on the trade he made in Apple in 2020. One move, right? And so I'm like, I am entering into a, like, how could I say that I'm good? Like, even if I was exceptional, it's still goin g to take 20 years to prove it. So like, I can't say anything. And by that point, I'll probably have other guys who are, you know, who are fucking Titans at that point to remind me of the fact that I'm not as good as them. So in your estimation, is the presence of an ego something which artificially limits the size of the v ision of how high you want to climb? Yeah. A hundred percent. Because it's, you cannot, you can't both s ay that you are, you cannot admit death sits and say you're awesome at the same time, in my opinion. Li ke I can't say like, I suck at all these things and then also be like, I'm the best. You can't do it. You either li ke, you suck at all these things. And I think it's the Dunning-Kruger effect, which is like the more you, the more you learn about something, the more, the more you realize you don't know. And so I think that if y ou have a tiny, tiny subset of things that you were studying and a tiny subset of people you're comparing yourself to, then it's really easy to feel awesome about yourself. But if you compare yourself to, I mean, I compare myself every day to Warren Buffett. And like, he's my app, him and Mung are like my heroes, mostly because the way they lived life and what they like, just everything about the way they lived is so mething that I just love. And like, I have Buffett's net worth by age tracked and I have like mine tracked a nd I'm like, all right, just gotta stay above that line. I am right now. But like I had a, you know, like his wo rld was different. Like I got, Warren didn't have Warren to learn from. Yes. Very interesting. It's, I mean, you took, we just spoke about this at the very, very start where you were saying you have the opportuni ty of using the blueprint that has been laid down by me. Yeah. Like if you've got nothing to lose, do, do t he me thing. Yeah. You know, you have all of the mistakes, all of the failures and all of the successes. An d he, there was another one where you said the rarer you are, the rarer the people are who share your perspective in this way, the greater your success, the fewer people you can share it with. And I was playi ng with this quote from Alanda Botton from the School of Life for ages, which was, loneliness is a kind of tax you have to pay to atone for a certain complexity of mind. And I'm really not sure, because since I've been in Austin, the complexity of mind thing, which is that hasn't stopped, but the loneliness changed. A nd I figured that that was a big function of change of environment and maybe like whatever embracing o r acceptance of, of what was going on. But again, is this a byproduct of success that a lot of people don't necessarily realize it's a price that's going to be need to be paid. If you want to achieve a ton of success, you end up at this rarefied strata out in the troposphere somewhere. And you're like, well, I got like five people that I can talk to that understand what I'm going through at the moment. Or another question as well. Is that a combination of hubris and self delusion? Like, is that true? Or are there things that the bus driver or the lady that serves you at Whole Foods can actually like relate to you on? So two questions. O ne is, I would probably reject the notion that it's a price overall. Because like, being in like, if you think a bout it as a mountain, there's less, there's less square footage at the top of the mountain, just is there's f ewer people there. And the air is thinner, it's harder to get there harder to breathe, right? And you have to adjust to it, you have to acclimate. And the people that are around you, like there are fewer of them, but you could make the argument that they have even more context than anyone else possibly could. An d so maybe the relationship you have are potentially deeper. Even if they're not, humans don't need tha t many relationships. So like, you just have a smaller pool to choose from, but like most people only hav e two or three good relationships in their life anyways. And so like, you just have a narrow pool that you can make that selection from. And I mean, for the people that I have interacted with who are far above t hat above me on the mountain, that's been there. That's what they've relayed to me. But it's only bad if you think it's a cost. If you're okay with it, because there are plenty of people who are lonely right now a nd don't have shit. So, and there's, you know, and you already know this, but like, there's something bei ng lonely and solitude, you know? And one is seen as bad, the other seen as fine or good. In some circles , that's seen as self care. So, to me, it just means that like, I think your tolerance or your standard for frie nds raises. And I'll share this and hopefully it comes off the right way. I entered communities as I was co ming up and was like, wow, everyone here is bigger than me. And then I was able to through achieveme nt rise through that. And then I lost context with that group. And so I think there's just more free agency , a friendship that happens on your climb up because you're just moving between strata more frequently than it is that if I settled at one of these levels, then I would eventually find all the people at that rung. B ut if you're constantly on the move up the mountain, then more of that is in transitionary period on the climb. And it's only a problem if you'd hate it. I don't. What don't you hate? You don't hate the fact that sort of people come and go, that some of these relationships are kind of transient? Yeah, it just doesn't bother me. Because I think it's like a should statement, which is like one of my big things is like, why sho uld I? Why does it have to be? Why must it? It doesn't must anything. It just is that way. And that's fine. Talking about social media, we mentioned this earlier on, what are your predictions for the next six mon ths to a couple of years in terms of what you think is going to be big, any focuses or any interesting tren ds that you're noticing at the moment? I will say first off that I'm not a social media expert by any stretc h, but just, you know, I think AI is going to be the main driving force behind the future of social media. A nd I don't know how we're going to deal with it. I mean, there's already the deep fakes of Rogan doing e ntire podcasts with Steve Jobs that are going out there. And the entire thing is both created and recorde d with AI. And so I think it'll be really interesting because right now it's still not as good as the best creat ors, but in a few machine generations, it'll make the best content every time in seconds. And I'm not sur e what's going to happen. I think that I know the verification checkmark is going to matter more. It'll cha nge in its meaning right now. I mean, status in the future, it'll mean real person. So that I'll make that pr ediction that the verification of bot versus human will become more important in the future. I can make that prediction. And that there will be more AI generated content in the future than there is today. And how we respond to it, I don't know. It's scary to think that what we basically had for the last five years or so since the algorithm started to get really tight is a three way feedback mechanism from algorithms des igning better delivered content to users. It also nudges the users preferences so that they are easier and more predictable to predict. That was that two way street was something I learned from Stuart Russell a nd he's fucking amazing. Everybody needs to understand that. It's not just you programming the algorith m. It's the algorithm programming you. And it's one of the reasons that it explains increasing division an d extremity. Because if you are far right or far left or super whatever or super the other thing, it makes y ou way easier to predict. And that's a byproduct of any algorithmic optimizing function. And then the thi rd element of that is audience capture by the creators, because they are the third element of the creatio n of the content, right? That they go, how well did that perform? Oh, well, we'll red meet that a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. And then you end up on your knees like cooking for the a udience. Right? Yeah. The fourth element of this is going to be then you are able to algorithmically creat e content that understands the back end of the algorithm that can nudge preferences and can get feedb ack and all of that. I mean, that to me is fuck me if we think that, you know, like the degree of overbeari ngness that social has on our lives at the moment, like that's a very, very big deal. Well, it could cut out t he middleman, the creator being the middleman, and then just becomes a vertically integrated platform that creates content on its own using AI and just feeds it directly to the audience. That's why I say as soo n as those, the AI images of hot girls came out and then chat GPT, you go, look, like only fans, you're no l onger an agency. You're now a tech company. That should be the move that you make. Every single pers on should have their own curated wifey girlfriend online. And that's what you, that's your thing. And it w ould be infinitely scalable, you know, like the perfect dirty talk, completely curated and twiddled to your specific, whatever it is. But that doesn't bode particularly well for how much limbic hijack and freedom p eople have from social media, because it is only going to become more and more compelling, which isn't necessarily a good thing. I mean, good, bad, no idea. I think there will probably be a little bit of a counter movement of people who want to do more things in person. Make social media human again. Well, you know, an interesting thought experiment that I had, I was like, because we've taken some things and I d o think AI is going to happen, but like, as in it will continue. But I was like, we accept all technology as ine vitable. And I was thinking about this and I was like, has there ever been a technology that humans have created that we were like, nah, we shouldn't do this. I thought about it. I was like, there is one nuclear b ombs. We all were like, I think it's better if we don't, we should just not do this. And everyone just like a greed. We're like, we're not going to do this. And I think the rate of AI, how disaggregated it is, like, will prevent that from happening. But I just thought about that as like, it just, there hasn't been any other te chnological thing that I've seen besides nuclear bombs that we all together were like, this isn't good for us. Have you seen how tabletop genetic sequencing machines work? No. This is a really good example of what you're talking about. So the way that pretty much all of them are cloud based and in order to sequ ence whatever it is that you're looking to sequence, it sends the request up to the cloud and there's thre e gradings. There's green, amber and red. And if it's green, you can just do it. No one checks. If there's a mber, you have to submit a proposal for what it is, where it's going, BSL level, etc. security, security. If it' s red, you just can't do it. And then presumably someone comes around and goes, excuse me, what the f uck are you doing trying to make smallpox? But that there's been, I think it's either two or three times in the history of gene sequencing, there has been a moratorium placed globally on this. Everyone's gone. E very fucking machine goes off. Everything stop until we work out what's going on. So there are situation s. That's a great example. Like cloning. As you just said, as soon as you start to atomize that and disaggre gate it and distribute it between enough different actors, how are you going to be able to control? And t he other thing is with genetic sequencing, the kind of machines that you need, the hardware is complex. Yeah. It's expensive and it's rare. The hardware is not complex for anybody can code. And the reward is? Everything. It's the world. It's the world. It's domination. It's money. It's success. It's all of those things. T his is why, I don't know, man, like the fucking the techno optimist thing, ever since I read super intelligen ce by Nick Bostrom five or six years ago, I just don't see an AGI future where stuff doesn't get fucked. I d on't know. Would whether we get the general bit of AGI, super AGI is like still up for a big part of debate. But if you end up creating this very strange world in which everyone's limbically hijacked with their own personal newsfeed of like perfectly. You remember Cambridge Analytica and the scandals around the Hil lary Clinton ads. It's like, I know your preferences and we're going to create these perfectly done ads. So, okay. I mean, the ads were still created by a human and it was still, you were bucketed into a content wi th other men of this age with these interests in this area, with these voting habits. Imagine if every singl e newsfeed, not just post newsfeed was perfectly curated to maximize time on site. It says, hey, Chris, lik e that's the first line of every ad. Yeah. Crazy. Well, but it might just be the same as email the first time t here was personalized email. All of a sudden you stop becoming responsive to your own name. So like, I think they'll be push pool on that stuff. But I'm with you on the AGI longterm, you know, as a weird thou ght experiment, if you think about what God looks like in terms of most definitions, they're like an omnis cient, omnipotent being. And I think we're just creating that. Like what does AI know? It knows everythi ng, right? What can it do? Everything immediately. Like weird. Usually God would be benevolent. Yes. Ro lling the benevolence in there. Yeah. Might be good. If we could. It's long, God's longterm benevolent. B ut short term sometimes mean, yeah, you are true. Definitely wrath. Yeah. In almost all fakes. What are you working on now? What can people expect from you next? A hundred dollar leads, $100 million leads , which is the second book in the $100 million series is going to come out this year. So that's exciting. We will be done the edited final draft within seven days. So I'm like, it's been, we put in 3,500 hours togethe r, my editor and I combined or last two years doing it. So it is the first four to six hours of my day every d ay. Like before I came here, I was editing the book and that's what I did yesterday. And that's what I did before. So that it could be really, really good. And so that's the big creative side of me is the book. It'll be 99 cents. There you go. I get 33 of that by the way. Yes. You're rich. And then the rest of my life is all abo ut deals. It's just, we've got some really interesting companies that we're investing in. Very, very pumpe d on that side. So yeah, if you've got a one to $10 million EBITDA business and you would like a growth p artner, go to acquisition.com. You can let us know. I really appreciate you. I really, really enjoyed this tod ay. It's been cool to come and see. Thank you for having me. Appreciate it. Hopefully the audience got w hat they wanted. What's happening people. Thank you very much for tuning in. If you enjoyed that episo de, then press here for a selection of the best clips from the podcast over the last few weeks. And don't f orget to subscribe. Peace. 